SaveSales — Items, Cart and Shared Sales

UPGRADE
1. Close the old SaveSales application on every PC.
2. Replace SaveSales.exe with this same new build on every PC, then open it.
3. No separate server, IP entry or coordinator selection is required.
4. Keep the existing %LOCALAPPDATA%/SaveSales data directory on each PC. Do not
   replace or copy databases between PCs. The additive migration creates the new
   tables while preserving employee/attendance events, admin settings and node IDs.
5. Allow the app on Windows Private networks if Windows asks again for permission.

This build uses protocol SaveSales-peer-v3 because earlier builds cannot process
product and sale operations. All PCs must be upgraded together; do not mix versions.
The executable bundles Python, CustomTkinter, Pillow, Flask and SQLite. No runtime
internet connection or separate Python installation is required. It is unsigned.
Source files were updated in place; backup_before_items_cart holds the previous files.

ITEMS
The Items screen displays rounded product cards with image, name, price, description
and Add to Cart. Click a card to select it; its border turns blue.
+ Add Item prompts for the existing admin password, then opens the product form.
A nonempty name and positive price are required. Enter 6.00 or 6,00 for R$ 6.00.
Prices support at most two decimal places and are stored as integer cents.
Description and image are optional. JPEG/PNG/WebP/BMP images can be imported.
Images are resized proportionally to at most 512x384, compressed to JPEG, and limited
to 160,000 bytes. Originals are not modified. The catalog never stores a Windows
image path: each replica has image bytes in its items.image BLOB column.
Delete Item requires the admin password and an explicit confirmation. Cancellation
leaves the product untouched. Deletion removes the product from the shared catalog,
but does not change any previously completed sale or receipt.

CART
Each PC has an independent in-memory cart for its current customer. Adding the same
product again increases quantity. Use +, minus or Remove to change the current cart.
These cart actions never require an admin password and never delete catalog products.
Customer Name is optional. An empty name saves a walk-in customer sale.
Unit prices, subtotals and total use integer cents; there is no tax system added.
Unfinished carts are not transmitted to other PCs and are not retained after closing
the application. Products and completed sales are the shared data.

SAVE SALE
Save Sale stores a unique ID, date/time, optional customer name and immutable line
snapshots containing item ID, name, quantity, unit price and subtotal, plus total.
The form clears the cart and customer name only after success is confirmed, and shows
a short confirmation. The completed sale appears in Daily Tracking on all peers.
A sale ID and payload are frozen when Save Sale is first pressed. If a response is
lost, Retry Save Sale reuses them rather than creating a duplicate purchase. Editing
is temporarily locked while that result is uncertain. Automatic refresh also notices
an already-saved sale and clears the cart. A definite validation rejection unlocks
editing. If the app is closed during uncertainty, inspect Daily Tracking before
creating another purchase for that customer.
If a product was deleted before the purchase could be saved, the server rejects the
purchase and asks you to remove that product. It does not silently omit a line.
A retry of an already-saved sale still succeeds after catalog deletion without
creating another sale. Receipts always use their saved names and prices.
Sale timestamps are captured once on the cashier PC with its timezone offset; keep
Windows clocks/timezones correct. Attendance retains its coordinator-clock behavior.

DAILY TRACKING
Select a date in YYYY-MM-DD format and click Show date. The screen shows completed
sales and that day's exact total. View opens a receipt with customer, lines and total.
Receipt contents do not depend on the current catalog and survive product deletion.

TWO-PC ACCEPTANCE TEST
1. Open the new executable on PCs A and B on the same store LAN. Wait for green.
2. On A, use + Add Item, authenticate, and create Coca-Cola at 6.00 with an image.
3. Confirm its name, R$ 6.00 price, description and image appear on B automatically.
4. On B, add Coca-Cola twice. Cart should contain one row, quantity 2, total R$ 12.00.
5. Open Cart on A. It should still be empty: B's current purchase is private to B.
6. On B, use minus/plus and Remove. No admin password should be requested.
7. Add it twice again, enter a customer name, and Save Sale. Confirm cart and name clear.
8. On A, open Daily Tracking and View the saved sale. Verify quantity 2 and R$ 12.00.
9. On either PC, save another purchase with Customer Name empty. Verify it succeeds.
10. On B, select the product card and Delete Item. A wrong password must be rejected.
    With the correct password, cancel the confirmation first and verify it remains.
    Repeat and confirm deletion. The product must disappear on A too.
11. View both historical sales again. Their original product names/prices must remain.
12. Close one PC's app, wait for automatic takeover if necessary, then reopen it.
    Confirm catalog, receipts, employees and attendance converge. Repeat in reverse.

DATABASE AND REPLICATION
The same SQLite database now has typed items, sales and sale_items tables, plus item
removal tombstones. The migration is additive; it does not delete employee data.
Images are BLOBs in items. sale_items stores receipt names/prices independently and
has no dependency on a live item row. Sale and line inserts are one transaction.
The existing immutable event journal is still used for replication and reconciliation.
Commerce records therefore also have serialized journal operations (including base64
image transport). This is intentional: the journal preserves the established failover
architecture, while normalized tables provide typed catalog and sale storage.
Projection rows and journal inserts commit or roll back together. Deletion tombstones
prevent an older returning replica from recreating a deleted catalog entry.
Synchronization exchanges event IDs and transfers only missing operations; it does not
resend every image for each sale. Unchanged UI state polls use a digest response.

PRESERVED NETWORK LIMITS
All PCs retain equal business permissions, automatic discovery, background services,
coordinator election/failover, and replicas in %LOCALAPPDATA%/SaveSales.
The prior availability-oriented partition policy remains: a broken network can
briefly create multiple coordinators. Journals reconcile on reunion; this is not
quorum consensus or an absolute split-brain guarantee. Use the app on a trusted LAN.
Windows firewall permission is still necessary where the OS blocks incoming traffic.
UDP discovery uses 54545 and the service advertises its automatically selected TCP port.

VALIDATION
20 automated tests passed in the full suite, covering the existing LAN/attendance
features and the new commerce features. This run also passed the local UDP broadcast
test. The commerce suite was re-run after the final retry-error handling adjustment.
Real CustomTkinter checks passed product form/image import, cards, quantity changes,
cart removal without authorization, customer entry, sale/clear, receipts, delete
confirmation/cancellation, navigation and shutdown. Screens were visually checked
at 1000x600. Sample test screenshots accompany this delivery.
The rebuilt executable was tested with isolated data and successfully performed
discovery/election, image storage, sale creation, exact totals, duplicate retry
handling and historical receipt preservation after product deletion.
Syntax checks passed. Original employee JSON files still match their backup hashes.
Peer tests used real UDP/HTTP connections and independent temporary databases on one
Windows machine. Two physical PCs were not available; run the checklist above.

DEVELOPER COMMANDS
python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
python -m unittest test_lan test_commerce -v
python test_shop_ui.py
python -m pip install pyinstaller
./build_exe.ps1 -Python './.venv/Scripts/python.exe'

FILES
commerce.py: prices, thumbnail preparation, cart model, schema and commerce operations.
shop_ui.py: catalog, item form, cart, Daily Tracking and receipt screens.
main.py: integration with the existing desktop UI.
server.py: transactional commerce projection and incremental peer synchronization.
lan_client.py: conditional polling and definite-vs-uncertain request failures.
test_commerce.py and test_shop_ui.py: new automated/backend and real desktop tests.
