CURRENT BUILD: Items/Cart uses protocol v3; upgrade ALL PCs together.
See ITEMS_CART_GUIDE.txt for the new catalog, carts, sales and latest tests.

SaveSales: one application on every Windows PC

QUICK START
Use the SAME SaveSales.exe on every PC. Double-click it. Do not separately run
server.py, choose a coordinator, enter an IP, or approve another PC in SaveSales.
Each application starts its own service and local SQLite replica in background.
One reachable peer is automatically elected to order shared writes. Every PC has
the same business permissions, including add/delete with the shared admin password.
Startup normally takes about 3–8 seconds. Changes normally appear within 2–3 seconds.
Failover normally takes about 8–15 seconds; slow or blocked networking can take longer.

FIRST RUN WITH YOUR EXISTING DATA
Close the old SaveSales clients and old server first.
For migration, first open this new app on the PC containing your most complete old
data. Place the executable alongside savesales_shared.json, or employees.json and
employee_times.json. Running the updated main.py in your existing project also works.
The first peer imports those records automatically. Open the other PCs afterward.
Legacy JSON files are never modified or deleted. Existing files on a joining PC are
left untouched; once it finds the LAN journal it uses that journal instead of mixing
in potentially stale local JSON. Preserve any unique old records for reconciliation.
A malformed legacy JSON file prevents initialization instead of silently discarding it.
The program does not contain your personal employee data inside the executable.

FILES AND BACKUPS
The working project was updated in place. Pre-change files are preserved in
backup_before_peer_lan. The earlier backup_before_lan is also retained.
Every PC saves its replica at:
  %LOCALAPPDATA%/SaveSales/savesales.sqlite3
This is outside OneDrive and is not a network-shared database file. The replicas
exchange operations through the LAN service; SQLite files are never opened remotely.
To back up, close SaveSales on that PC and copy its SaveSales data directory.
Do not distribute one PC's live database to the other PCs: each needs its own node ID.
Distribute the executable only. Restore a backup to the same PC with SaveSales closed.
The normal program requires no internet connection, Python installation, or cloud.

WINDOWS PERMISSION
All PCs can become coordinator, so allow SaveSales.exe on Private networks on each
PC when Windows asks. This is an operating-system permission, not a SaveSales pairing
or host approval step. Keep Windows Firewall enabled. The service uses UDP 54545
for discovery and an automatically assigned TCP port advertised in its response.
An application firewall exception is appropriate because the TCP port is dynamic.
For source runs, the exception must apply to the Python executable running main.py.
No static IP, router port forwarding, or network drive is needed.
A firewall policy that blocks the app or guest Wi-Fi/client isolation can prevent
PCs from discovering one another. Application code cannot bypass those restrictions.
If Windows did not show a permission prompt, an administrator may need to allow the
app through Windows Security > Firewall & network protection > Allow an app through
firewall. This build is unsigned, so Windows may also display an application trust prompt.
Microsoft reference:
https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/windows-security/firewall-and-network-protection-in-the-windows-security-app

EXACT TWO-PC ACCEPTANCE TEST
1. Close all older SaveSales windows and old servers on both PCs.
2. Put the same SaveSales.exe on PCs A and B connected to the store's same LAN.
   For existing-data migration, start A first as described above, then B.
3. Open ONLY SaveSales.exe on each. Allow the Windows Private-network permission.
   Wait for green Connected / LAN synced on both. No extra terminal is required.
4. On A, open Employees and add Jeff using admin (or the existing configured password).
   Within a few seconds, Jeff must appear on B.
5. On B, open Jeff and click Clock In. Confirm the exact same timestamp appears on A.
6. On A, start Lunch Break. B must show the lunch-start time and End Lunch Break.
7. On B, click End Lunch Break. A must show the same lunch-end time.
8. On A, click Clock Out. B must show the same clock-out time.
9. On both, open the calendar date and compare all four timestamps. Navigate to an
   older month on one PC and confirm a refresh does not reset that month selection.
10. On B, go back to Employees while Jeff is selected, click Delete Employee,
    enter the correct admin password, and confirm Jeff disappears from A too.
    An incorrect password must not delete the employee.
11. Add a test employee on either PC. Close SaveSales on A. Leave B open, wait up
    to about 15 seconds, then add another employee on B. Reopen A and confirm both.
12. Now close B, leave A open, make a new change on A, reopen B, and confirm it.
    Testing both directions exercises loss of whichever PC was the coordinator.
13. Close both applications and reopen them. Confirm employees and time history persist.
14. Optional failure test: disconnect/reconnect one PC's network and wait for
    convergence. During the gap the status may be red; automatic takeover may then
    make that isolated PC green as a standalone coordinator. See the partition limit.

STATUS AND RETRIES
Green means this app can use a currently elected coordinator, including itself.
Red means discovery, election, synchronization, or a connection failure is in progress.
The client retries automatically. Opening two copies on the same Windows PC is blocked
by the service's exclusive discovery socket; use one application per PC.
The UI does not freeze while the peer service runs. Offline button actions are not
queued for surprise execution later. If a write response is lost, the result may be
unknown: inspect the shared state after reconnection before retrying.

HOW DATA SAFETY WORKS
Each PC has a SQLite WAL database with FULL synchronous transactions. A process lock
serializes local journal changes, and a coordinator lock serializes business requests.
Writes are journal operations, not uploads replacing the whole employee database.
The coordinator tries to replicate to live peers before replying; background sync
continues automatically. A sudden failure before any other replica receives a write
can still lose that most recent write if the original disk never returns.
Missing operations are merged by ID, preserving both sides' journals. Duplicate IDs
with different contents are rejected transactionally. Repeated clock actions never
overwrite an existing timestamp. Lunch start and end are separate operations.
Employee deletion retains a tombstone. A returning stale replica cannot resurrect a
deleted employee. Recreating the same name gives it a new identity; stale operations
against the previous employee are rejected. Deletion still removes the visible history,
as the original UI did; the underlying journal retains it for replica reconciliation.
Clock timestamps come from the current coordinator's Windows clock. Keep automatic
Windows time/timezone enabled on both PCs. The existing one-shift-per-date model remains.

NETWORK PARTITION LIMIT — PLEASE READ
This implementation intentionally favors automatic takeover with as few as two PCs.
It is NOT a quorum-consensus system and does NOT guarantee a single writer during an
arbitrary network partition. With two peers, a broken link is indistinguishable from
failure of the other peer. A disconnected side can elect itself after the timeout.
On a connected LAN, stable node IDs, election settling, peer agreement and request
fencing converge on one coordinator. On reunion, immutable journals merge and both
PCs deterministically show the same result. Deleted identities stay deleted.
If disconnected PCs recorded incompatible times, the deterministic journal order chooses
the displayed record, retains all original operations, and shows Review time conflicts
in the sidebar. Open it to see the competing timestamp and selected result.
This prevents silent whole-database replacement, but it is eventual reconciliation,
not a guarantee that every partition-time action will remain the displayed value.
Strict split-brain prevention would require quorum/fencing; with only two PCs that
would make the lone survivor unavailable for writes. That conflicts with automatic
single-survivor takeover without another witness. Raft reference:
https://raft.github.io/

ADMIN AND TRUST
The initial admin password remains admin unless SAVESALES_ADMIN_PASSWORD is set for
the first initializing peer. The password hash replicates with the journal, so another
PC becoming coordinator uses the same password, not its own local environment value.
Changing the environment after initialization does not change an existing journal's
password. Password checking is enforced on protected API actions as well as the dialog.
This is a trusted-store-LAN protocol. HTTP and automatic peer admission are not hardened
against a malicious machine already on that LAN. No cloud or internet service is used.

IMPLEMENTATION FILES
main.py: existing CustomTkinter UI, shared snapshots, status, conflict review.
lan_client.py: background worker that automatically creates/closes PeerNode.
server.py: embedded Flask service, UDP discovery, coordinator election, SQLite journal.
SaveSales_network.py: compatibility launcher for main.py.
requirements.txt: runtime source dependencies.
test_lan.py: durable storage and real-socket peer tests.
build_exe.ps1: reproducible one-file Windows build command.

SOURCE RUN AND BUILD (DEVELOPERS ONLY)
Source development: python -m pip install -r requirements.txt, then python main.py.
The store owner using SaveSales.exe does not need these commands.
For another build: install pyinstaller into that Python environment, then run
./build_exe.ps1 -Python './.venv/Scripts/python.exe'
The build outputs dist/SaveSales.exe with Python, Tk, Flask, SQLite and dependencies.

VALIDATION PERFORMED
- Syntax compilation passed for all application modules and test_lan.py.
- Automated suite: 12 tests run, 11 passed, 1 environment-dependent broadcast test skipped.
- Passed real UDP request/reply discovery and real HTTP communication among isolated
  local replicas; simultaneous startup with three peers elected one coordinator.
- Passed add/delete, wrong/correct admin password, all four clock events and history sync.
- Passed coordinator shutdown, surviving peer writes, restart and catch-up.
- Passed simulated partition/reunion, independent additions and deletion-vs-clock recovery.
- Passed concurrent writes, migration, restart durability, transaction rollback, and
  deletion/recreation protection.
- Actual desktop smoke test passed startup, green status, server-checked admin dialog,
  employee/calendar/history screens, remote deletion refresh, navigation, and shutdown.
- SaveSales.exe built and smoke-tested with isolated LocalAppData; it launched, elected
  itself, answered discovery and /state, and persisted SQLite.
- Broadcast packets were sent to limited and adapter-derived broadcast addresses.
  This Windows host did not deliver its own LAN broadcast back to the test listener,
  including a raw-socket check, so that physical discovery path is NOT certified here.
  Run the two-physical-PC test above before using this build in the store.
- Existing employees.json and employee_times.json still match their backup SHA-256 hashes.
